---
title: Biographies
author: Emily Riehl and Dominic Verity
date: 3^rd^ May 2023
---

## Emily Riehl

## Dom Verity

Dom Verity started his computational career in the early 1980s as a software
developer for the influential British personal computing pioneer Acorn
Computers; the company that invented the now ubiquitous ARM microprocessor. He
studied at the University of Cambridge (UK) and emerged from that institution in
1992 with a PhD in Pure Mathematics. From 1993-2000 he worked in the investment
banking industry as a quantitative analyst in equity derivatives for Deutsche
Bank Australia and as the Head of Equity Derivatives Trading for HSBC Australia.

He returned to academe at the turn of the new millennium, and since then has
worked as a mathematician, computer scientist, and academic administrator at
Macquarie University. His research interests lie in the mathematical fields of
Homotopy Theory, sometimes known as "rubber sheet geometry", Algebraic Topology
and Category Theory, a kind of "theory of everything" for pure mathematics. His
most cited paper introduced *Traced Monoidal Categories*, structures that have
become a key component in modern accounts of iterative processes in traditional
and quantum computation.

Dom is a passionate and engaging teacher and in 2011 he gained national
recognition as an educator with the award of an Australian Learning and Teaching
Council Citation for Outstanding Contribution to Student Learning. Over the past
two decades he has also been highly active in academic leadership roles and, most
recently, he led Macquarieâ€™s academic governance as Chair of its Academic
Senate.
